# 2024-07-10 meeting

## Present:
John Collins, Wayne Crawford, Takehi Isse, Susanne Hemmleb, Carlos Corela, Kasey Aderhold, Jerry Carter

## 2024 AGU Abstract

To Do:
- [X] Spell out FDSN in title
- [X] Add some specificity (unique timing corrections, orientation, noise and signal sources)
- [X] Remove repeated "standard"
- [X] Put Wayne as lead author

## Changes in the documentation since the last meeting

Wayne creates a tag after implementing the changes discussed during a meeting.  The existing tages are:
- 0.1: after 2024-03-05 meeting
- 0.2: after 2024-05-24 meeting

Maybe should add a 0.X.1 version for just before a meeting, to keep up on changes between meetings.

How to see changes between v0.2 and v0.1:
- Go to the "Code" tab
- Click on "*N* Tags", then "v0.2".  You should see the "commit" message, which summarizes the changes.
- Click on "Compare" and select "v0.1"
- Select the tab "Files changed"
- Look at the files that interest you (usually `standards.md` and `users.md`)
    - By default shows the source diff
    - If you click the "page" icon at the right side of the header showing the filename, you can see a "rich diff" (graphical)


## How to specify clock drift

- Remove polynomial implementation (put in storage)
    - [ ] **Wayne: discuss further with Roberto Diaz, Mechita and Maria**.
- Use the "uglier" option for specifying instrument and reference sync times (arrays of arrays) because it offers a clearer alignment of synchronized times
- Throw out `type: linear`, because can do the same with `type: piecewise`
- Rewrite `<Comment>`s in text so that leapsecond and drift both have `commment="Clock Correction"`, with type of correction (`drift` or `leapsecond`) specified in text
- [X] **ADD ISSUE TO DISCUSS WHETHER/HOW TO SPECIFY NOMINAL DRIFT AND/OR PRECISION**

## Vote on recommendations/standards

The participants voted on every **[REC]** and **[STD]]** in `standards.md`. 
These votes are non-binding, but they give a sense of how much each recommendation/standard is supported.
They also allowed discussions of several issues outlined below:

- [X] For the station naming recommendation, **indicate when the same station name can be used** (Kasey will look for reference documentation)
- [ ] For clock drift times: **specify that datetimes should be UTC times written in the ISO-8601 standard  with UTC times and a "Z" at the end**
  (using "Z" is specified for UTC time in ISO8601 ([Wikepdia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Coordinated_Universal_Time_(UTC)))
  and is also [recommended by FDSN](http://docs.fdsn.org/projects/stationxml/en/latest/appendices.html#glossary-datetime)).
- [ ] For embedding clock corrections in StationXML `<Comment>`s, **specify that JSON serialization should be used**.
- [ ] In "Orientation information" **add Z, N, and E values**
- [ ] **Add an issue about when to start/end data and how this is related to channel/station start_date and end_date**.  Should include the following notes:
  - Issues about trawled and flatlined data
  - Concurrent work on this issue for land stations
  - Sometimes people get frustrated with seeing no data and prefer to have flatlined data to be sure that it's useless!
- [ ] In `Creating data of each type`, add leap-seconds recommendation for raw data (**CREATE ISSUE?**)
- [ ] In `Leap seconds` section, add msmod example for negative leap second

## Other topics

Hateshi Isse
: Is there any space to specify whether or not there was a leveling unit?  If there is none, it can affect the data robustness on the horizontal channels.

- [ ] **Hateshi will creates an issue (if possible once logged in to Github) or writes Wayne the text.**
- [ ] **If Hateshi is unable to create an issue, Wayne should write Chad Trabant about authorizations for him and for Maria Tsekhmistreko**


Carlos Corela
: KUM and Guralp Data loggers apply leap-seconds and drift correction automatically.  How to handle this?
- [ ] **Make sure that their ouputs correspond to the standards and recommentations for SHIFTED data and communicate with them if not.
  Ask if it is possible to have RAW data also.**

## Date for next meeting

Mid-september (9-21)

- [ ] **Wayne should send out Doodle quickly**

## Other To Dos

- [ ] **Wayne should contact ISTI about implementing msmod drift correction**
