# 2024-11-15 FDSN OBS Standards meeting

## Present: 
Takehi, Maria, Susanne, Kasey, Joel, Wayne, John


## AGU poster
Wayne has only created [the ORFEUS poster](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/blob/main/other/2024.11_MarineStandards.pdf): how to make it more appealing?
- Maria: put OBS photo in the middle, arrows out to relevant issues/standards
- Joel: Add a signal graph that shows a particularly difficult OBS clock drift (Maria or Roberto Cabieces)
- Add QR codes (https://www.qr-code-generator.com)
- Should be landscape format
- Maria: print cheatsheets on A4 paper, 
- Map of deployments?

Wayne should send first draft to group in PowerPoint and PDF by Friday 22 November

abstract link: https://agu.confex.com/agu/agu24/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/1522864


## Issues for this meeting

### Document changes since September 2024 meeting [#40](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/40)
Approved and issue closed

### Restructure standards.md [#39](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/39)
**ToDo**: Wayne should create a standards_proposed.md document and send to group for dis/approval

### Drift correction document [#37](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/37)

Remaining issue is mostly about the order of columns: the group agreed upon a standard (see **ToDos**

Joel: add some way to specify where the reference time came from (will import from information file as input file comment (see **ToDos**)

### Add leap-second correction line to msmod? [#33](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/33)

Approved by the group and closed.

### Information about leveling systems in StationXML file [#28](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/28)

**ToDo**: Send proposed structure and explanation to WG2

### Find reference documentation for keeping the same station name for multiple deployments [#21](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/21)

Changed issue to a ToDo item

### Add OBS-specific parameters using external namespace? [#1](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/1)

Made **Todo** for Susanne

## Issues lacking discussion

Numbers 10, 25, 31, 32 and 36.  #36 changed to a **ToDo** for Wayne, the rest are now **ToDos** for all members.

### Include data quality in SDS's data_type character [#36]

See ToDos

### How to handle leap seconds [#32]

Wayne should update with what has been resolved by recent changes, but there are some logical conundrums that require reflection/responses from the group.

**Can someone(s) look at the issue and write something clear?**

The last three items just need responses from group members:
- ### OBS elements missing in StationXML [#31]
- ### How to specify start_dates and end_dates (and cut data) [#25]
- ### Specify how to convert geophone "N" and "E" channels to "1" and "2" [#10]


## Issues to close

- ### Should we include miniSEED 3 information? [#35]
  Responders say yes
- ### Find a clock drift calculation code using noise [#34]
  Add software references from ORFEUS poster and close
- ### Modifications to September 2024 minutes [#30]
  No modifications proposed.  Closed
- ### Validate description of msmod modifications[#27]
  Wayne sent request to ISTI website, no response yet (is there a good email address?).  Column order resolved (issue #37).  Closed
- ### Recommendations or best practices instead of standards? [#7]
  Kasey will add final note and close issue. 

## Issues to open

- ### Modifications to November 2024 minutes

## Other topics

None

## Date/hour for next meeting

Early-mid January.

- [ ] Send out Doodle quickly [Wayne]
- [ ] Send out calendar notification once date chosen [Kasey]

## ToDos

- Wayne
    - [ ] Make poster and send to group (by Friday 22 November)
        - [ ] Generate QR code(s) for the poster
    - [ ] Change "julian day" to "day of year" in `leap_second_msmod_addition.md` file (and anywhere else that this mistake was made)
    - [ ] Write `standards_proposed.md` with new structure (issue #39) and send to group for approval/disapproval
    - [ ] msmod drift correction (Issue #37):
        - example log files (and documentation):
            - [ ] Rename "Corrected Time" as "Corrected to Reference", "Original Time" to "Instrument Time"
        - example input files (and [documentation](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/blob/main/other/msmod_drift_addition.md)):
            - [ ] Make machine readable
            - [ ] Add timing base information
            - [ ] FLIP COLUMNS!
            - [ ] Change "cubic" to "cubic-spline"?
        - [ ] Write what was done and close Issue
    - [ ]  Write FDSN WG2 about:
        - [ ] Adding a miniSEED3 Extra Header Field concerning clock correction, whether this field could be selectable in ```fdsnws_dataselect```, and whether/how "data publication version" will be selectable in ```fdsnws_dataselect``` (Issue 11)
        - [ ] Whether leveling system information (Issue #28) could/should be added to next version of StationXML.
        - [ ] Whether SeisComp3 structure could be updated to allow separate files for NOT CLOCK CORRECTED and CLOCK CORRECTED (Issue #36).  If they approve, then contact SeismComp
- Maria
    - [ ] Set up github projects as a way of grouping issues and assigning people
- Susanne
    - [ ] Submit and obspy issue about reading namespaced elements and not losing them on output
- ALL
    - [ ] Look at and comment on Issues #32, #31, #25, #10
- Kasey
    - [ ] Look at DAS metadata group's visuals, suggest how we can emulate.
    - [ ] Get Maria added to the particpants of github site.  And activate projects (or create a project) on our site

