# OBS standards Action Group meeting 2024-03-05

Present: John Collins, Yinshuang Ai, Jerry Carter, Susanne Hemmleb, Joel Simon, Kasey Aderhold, Wayne Crawford

## Notable decisions

- Use "issues" on the github site as the principal means of discussion for changes, additions, subtractions.
- Have a video meeting every two months (next meeting **early May**)
- Have "milestone"  presentations at conferences and on FDSN mailing list
    - AGU 2024
    - EGU 2025
    - June and December to mailing list (WG5?)

## Presentation

Wayne presented the github site:

- Two main files:
    - `standards.md` contains all data and metadata standards
    - `users.md` contains a data-user oriented overview of standards, plus recommendations on processing software
- `preambule.md` file contains motivation text.  Less important than others, but could be useful in documents.
- `References` directory contains past documents on the subject

Propose to principally interact through this site, using `issues` and, for those who understand them, `pull requests`

## Discussion
> **JCarter**: Thanks Wayne.  Likes using `issues` for discussion.
>
> **JCollins**: Lets go with this for now.
>
> **JSimon**: Agree. Opening issues is probably better than pull requests.
>
> **JCollins**: Just need some time to look over the document
>
> **KAderhold**: Could be a problem keeping `standards.md` and `users.md` parallel as changes are made.
>
> **WCrawford**: Created issue to remove data and metadata details from `users.md` document, keeping only list of sections to put in.  This document will be principally used for updating the software information (*could also just create a `software.md` file*)


Checked that everyone gets informed when there is an issue.  Each member needs to:
- login to github
- click on the "Watch" button at the top level directory
- select "All Activity"

> **KAderhold**: Are there milestones for reporting to the community?

**Decision**: present at AGU 2024, EGU 2025; send june/december update mails to FDSN community.  At conferences: poster with opportunity for conversation.  Also regional conferences as members wish (inform the group please).

> **JCarter**: Thu and Fri before EGU, has a meeting with ORFEUS to talk about FDSN standards, could be a good place to bring this work up.

## Meeting frequency

Every two months seems reasonable to the members.
