# OBS standards Action Group meeting 2024-05-14

Present: John Collins, Yinshuang Ai, Jerry Carter, Susanne Hemmleb, Kasey Aderhold, Wayne Crawford

## Notable decisions


## Discussion
> **SHemmleb**: At our group meeting, Angelo didn't like the word "standards", would prefer "guidelines", which he considers stronger.
>
> **Wayne**: I think "standards" is stronger than "guidelines", will look it up (start an issue)
>
> **JSimon**: Agree. Opening issues is probably better than pull requests.
>
> **JCollins**: Just need some time to look over the document
>
> **KAderhold**: Could be a problem keeping `standards.md` and `users.md` parallel as changes are made.
>
> **WCrawford**: Created issue to remove data and metadata details from `users.md` document, keeping only list of sections to put in.  This document will be principally used for updating the software information (*could also just create a `software.md` file*)


Checked that everyone gets informed when there is an issue.  Each member needs to:
- login to github
- click on the "Watch" button at the top level directory
- select "All Activity"

> **KAderhold**: Are there milestones for reporting to the community?

**Decision**: present at AGU 2024, EGU 2025; send june/december update mails to FDSN community.  At conferences: poster with opportunity for conversation.  Also regional conferences as members wish (inform the group please).

> **JCarter**: Thu and Fri before EGU, has a meeting with ORFEUS to talk about FDSN standards, could be a good place to bring this work up.

## Meeting frequency

Every two months seems reasonable to the members.
