# OBS standards Action Group meeting 2024-05-14

Present: John Collins, Yinshuang Ai, Jerry Carter, Susanne Hemmleb, Kasey Aderhold, Wayne Crawford

## Discussion

### Nomenclature of standards versus guidelines

> **SHemmleb**: At our group meeting, Angelo didn't like the word "standards", would prefer "guidelines", which he considers stronger.
>
> **Wayne**: I think "standards" is stronger than "guidelines", will look it up

*SHemmleb started issue https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/7, which goes a little beyond the above question and into the question of
"recommendations" and "best practices".  Wayne added his two cents*

### Specifying nature and support for a standard/recommendation
WCrawford suggested voting on each standard/recommendation at the next meeting, as a nonbinding way of indicating the level of support.  He created issue https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/8 about how to label this

### Requirement of CORRECTED data for data centers

> **CCorela**: A recent experiment had drifts from 1-20 seconds, with multi-second non-linearities after linear drift correction.  Should OBS facilities be required to supply corrected data?
>
> **WCrawford**: The current `standards` document does not specify requiring corrected data, it
> just lists the three possible types of "time correction": RAW, SHIFTED and RESAMPLED, and discusses
> how to specify them.  That said, it is much more efficient and reproduceable for a provider to correct
> the data before sending it to the data center than for each user to have to try to do it him/herself.
>
> **JCollins**: Should supply SHIFTED data
>
> **Wayne**: Suggest that SHIFTED be highly recommended (one level below "standard"?)

### Software to shift time to correct drift

> **Wayne**: This should become easier for facilities to apply once `msmod` has been updated to create
> piecewise-linear clock correction.
>
> **JCollins**; Would really like this, as our OBSs will recalibrate at fixed intervals during a deployment (by waking a CSAC).
>
> **WCrawford**: I've been dragging my feet on writing to the software company that should do this work, for fear
> that my specification is inadequate.  **Will send this specification to the Action Group list + Chad Trabant
> to validate before sending to the company**
>

### Specification of SHIFTED versus RAW time base

> **WCrawford**: The current recommendation is to specify a data quality code of "D" for RAW times and "Q" for SHIFTED data.
> This will need to be updated for miniSEED3, and there are some that would prefer to use the
> location code for this, even in miniSEED2 (see issue https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/4)
>
> **JCollins**: OBSIC always set code to "D", even after clock correction, but no problem with using "Q"
>
> **SHemmleb**: At the group meeting, most members prefer putting the information in location codes.
> Some mentioned that characters could be used as well as numbers
>
*This suprised a few members, but a quick check of the FDSN source identifier, stationxml documentation and stationxml 1.2 schema found no requirement for numeric values.  The source identifiers document
specifically states that location codes may be composed of "Uppercase [A-Z], ASCII 65 through 90;
Numeric [0-9], ASCII 48 through 57; and Dash “-”, ASCII 45.  The SEED 2.4 specification limits location codes to 2 characters, whereas Source Identifier Location Codes may have up to 8 characters.*
> **KAderhold**: This would be a departure from the intent of the location code
>
> **JCollins**: Agree. Not compatible with the original definition or use
>
> **KAderhold**: On another subject, we should address the proper use of location codes in the `standards` document [ISSUE].
>
> **JCollins**: This could cause problems with PASCALL and other groups.  It has to be agreed upon.
>
> **Kasey**: GSN uses flags for redattions and location codes for sensors
>
> **WCrawford**: Could this be a place for miniSEED3 "Extra Header Fields"? (wouldn't solve the filename problem)

*This appears to be the most difficult/divisive issue for now.  WCrawford created issue https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/11 to discuss this.*

### External references
Using a custom namespace for non-standard information could be useful for specifying, say, drift correction, instead of the current "JSON in Comments" kludge.  Allowed by stationxml spec and schema.  

GFZ already uses this to specify unique identifiers for their instrumentation components.  One problem is that obspy strips out this information when reading then writing StationXML.  *Susanne added an example of GFZs use of this to the existing issue https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/1.*

## Next meeting

First half of July 2024. WCrawford should **send out a Doodle immediately**.  KAderhold will send out a calendar invite once the date is set

## To Do

### Wayne
  - [X] Add example to footnote 2 that -90 pressure channel dip means that the first break of the pressure channel will have the same polarity as a Z channel.
  - [X] Doodle for next meeting
  - [X] Rewrite "Data Completeness" paragraph to specify that station start and enddates should correspond
    to initially plannned start and end of measurement (channels will have actual period of measurement)
  - [X] Add "Highly Recommended" to provide SHIFTED times
  - [X] Send msmod rules for piecewise linear clock correction to group + CTrabant before submitting to software company that will do the work.
  - [X] Remove mention of qedit from `standards` document.  Strengthen statement of modified `msmod`

### SHemmleb
- [X] Add an example of GFZ use of custom namespace:field in StationXML files to issue https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/1

### KAderhold
- Create an issue about how/where to address location codes in the `standards` documentation
