# 2024-09-18 meeting

## Present:
John Collins, Wayne Crawford, Takehi Isse, Susanne Hemmleb, Kasey Aderhold, Maria Tsekhmistrenko, Joel Simon

## Tags in the documentation 

tag   | when
----- | -------------------------
0.1   | after 2024-03-05 meeting
0.2   | after 2024-05-24 meeting
0.3   | after 2024-07-10 meeting
0.3.1 | before 2024-09-18 meeting

## Issues

### changes to clock correction (https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/29)
Accept combining "type" and "interpolation"
Reject adding possibility for "offset" in seconds

*9/18: Integrated into standards.md and msmod_drift_addition.md.  Closed issue*

### cubic spline and polynomials (https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/26)
Polynomial format is outlined in https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/15
**Put it back in**! with "buyer beware" warning and error-checking of bounds.

*9/18: Integrated into msmod_drift_addition.md. Closed issue.*

### msmod modifications (https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/27)
Concerning [msmod_drift_addition.md](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/blob/main/other/msmod_drift_addition.md)
- Add "type" line description to help
- Put polynomial terms on same line as type: ``type: polynomial 0 1.3e-9 2.4``
- Algorithm:
    - add "verify that each time column is monotonically incresing"
    - change "by linear interpolation between the surrounding "Instrument time" lines" to "by the specified method"
    - if polynomial fit, verify that calculated values fit specified timing lines
- Questions: "Yes", then "No"
- Add log file output? input file name + ".log" (error if exists).  Header with correction method/coefficients, then recno, Reftime, insttime and correction for each record.
- Limit to number of values?

*9/18: Integrated into msmod_drift_addition.md.  Issue label changed to "ToDo" until this
file is validated by the group*
  
### Terminology for clock un/corrected data (https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/22) ###
- [X] RAW -> NOT CLOCK CORRECTED
- [X] SHIFTED -> CLOCK CORRECTED

*Accepted in meeting.  Modified in standards.md.  Issue closed*

### If/how to specify time base nominal drift (or precision) (https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/20) ###
- [X] Add optional "nominal_drift_rate" to "drift" element

*Accepted in meeting.  Modified in standards.md.  Issue closed*

### How to specify time correction in miniSEED 3 (https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/11) ###
**Wayne should write Chad Trabant about webservice data selection using "data publication version" and "extra header".  Possibility for an official "extra header" for "NOT CLOCK CORRECTED" versus "CLOCK CORRECTED"?**

*Updated Issue and added "ToDo" label*

### Information about leveling systems in StationXML (https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/28) ###

At next meeting, group should create a list of elements OBSs need and that are lacking in StationXML. Then write to Chad/FDSN to see which of these elements can be added to StationXML.

*Wayne created new Issue: OBS elements missing in StationXML (https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/31)*

## Other topics

## leap second ##
in what order do we correct leap seconds and clock drift?  And do we note clock synchronization accounted for leap seconds or not?
**NEED TO HAVE AN OFFLINE DISCUSSION ABOUT THIS BEFORE NEXT MEETING.**

*Added issue https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/32*

## Date/hour for next meeting

Early-mid November?
After 3 November, all changed to winter hours, so:

- if we do not change the GMT hour, will be worse for US Pacific (6-8 AM)
- if we advance the GMT hour by one, will be worse for China (23-01h) and Japan (00-02h)

*We will maintain the GMT hour*

- [X] Send out Doodle quickly [Wayne]
- [ ] Send out calendar notification once date chosen [Kasey]

## Other To Dos

- [ ] Send modified msmod drift correction document to group
- [ ] Create a sample miniseed file, 3 clock correction files and 3 "output" log files
      to provide as test cases
- [ ] Contact ISTI about implementing msmod drift correction [Wayne]
- [ ] Send AGU presentation before next meeting [Wayne]
