# 2024-09-18 meeting

## Present:
John Collins, Wayne Crawford, Takehi Isse, Susanne Hemmleb, Kasey Aderhold, Maria Tsekhmistrenko, Joel Simon

## Tags in the documentation 

- 0.1: after 2024-03-05 meeting
- 0.2: after 2024-05-24 meeting
- 0.3: after 2024-07-10 meeting
- 0.3.1: before 2024-09-18 meeting

## Issues

### changes to clock correction (#29)
Accept combining "type" and "interpolation"
Reject adding possibility for "offset" in seconds

### cubic spline and polynomials (#26)
Polynomial format is outlined in issue #15
**Put it back in**! with "bdyer beware" warning and error-checking of bounds.

### msmod modifications (#27)
- Add "type" line description
- Put polynomial terms on same line as type: ``type: polynomial 0 1.3e-9 2.4``
- Algorithm:
    - add "verify that each time column is monotonically incresing"
    - change "by linear interpolation between the surrounding "Instrument time" lines" to "by the specified method"
    - if polynomial fit, verify that calculated values fit specified timing lines
- Questions: "Yes", then "No"
- Add log file output? input file name + ".log" (error if exists).  Header with correction method/coefficients, then recno, Reftime, insttime and correction for each record.
- Limit to number of values?

### Terminology for clock un/corrected data:
- **RAW -> NOT CLOCK CORRECTED**
- **SHIFTED -> CLOCK CORRECTED**

### #20 ###
- **Add optional "nominal_drift_rate" to "drift" element**

### How to specify time correction in miniSEED 3 (#11) ###
**Wayne should write Chad Trabant about webservice data selection using "data publication version" and "extra header".  Possibility for an official "extra header" for "NOT CLOCK CORRECTED" versus "CLOCK CORRECTED"?

### Information about leveling systems in StationXML (#28) ###
**Wayne should write to Chad Trabant to see if this could/should be added to next version of StationXML.  If not, specify OBS-level description.  Or wait until we create list of possible additions....**

## Other topics

## leap second ##
in what order do we correct leap seconds and clock drift?  And do we note clock synchronization accounted for leap seconds or not?
**NEED TO HAVE AN OFFLINE DISCUSSION ABOUT THIS BEFORE NEXT MEETING**
**RECOMMEND ORDER OF CORRECTION: LEAP SECOND FIRST, OR DRIFT?**

## Date/hour for next meeting

Early-mid November?
After 3 November, all changed to winter hours, so:

- if we do not change the GMT hour, will be worse for US Pacific (6-8 AM)
- if we advance the GMT hour by one, will be worse for China (23-01h) and Japan (00-02h)

Recommend keeping GMT hour

- [ ] Send out Doodle quickly [Wayne]
- [ ] Send out calendar notification once date chosen [Kasey]

## Other To Dos

- [ ] Contact ISTI about implementing msmod drift correction [Wayne]
- [ ] Send AGU presentation before next meeting [Wayne]
