# 2025-03-07 FDSN OBS Standards meeting

## Present: 
WCrawford, JSimon, JCollins, CCorela, TIsse, KAderhold, JCarter

##  ToDos from last meeting

## Document/Issue changes since last meeting

### In standards.md

- Added general rule for adding marine-specific information to StationXML
- Replaced "Proposed Standards" by "Proposed Standards and Recommendations"
    - Removed unanimous "vote" information, using "We recommend" for recommendations.
- Added leveling system "proposal"
- Pared down clock drift information
- Cleaned up miniSEED3 section, **but still without recommendation**
- Added reference to IASPEI Station Coding standard

## Issues for this meeting
Some "new" issues are cleaned up / reorganized versions of old ones

### Minutes of January 2025 meeting ([#46](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/46))
No problems seen

### Shift standards and software documents to Google Docs (or similar)? ([#48](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/48))
Format that we will present at FDSN meeting at IASPEI Lisbon (2-1/2 "meetings" from now)

Agreed on.  Need to archive Markdown version, put PDF equivalent on site so that outside users can see and comment in Issues.

### Verify leveling system documentation ([#45](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/45))

JCollins @ CCorela: how to handle non-conventional leveling systems

Keep issue open to allow discussion of automatic compensation systems (like Guralp Aquarius, Sercel accelerometer...)

### Specifying time correction in miniSEED3 ([#43](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/43))

New issue split off from old issue 36

No concrete advance yet, **suggest adding Issue to miniSEED3 github**.

### Specifying time correction in SDS ([#44](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/44))
New issue split off from old issue 36

Wayne needs to add email chain to Issue, send to Susanne.  Susanne will talk to Andres about this.

### Add how to specify when there is no clock sync information ([#42](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/42))

JCarter and JSimon don't like the null specifier, prefer to put nothing.  Need to think about a structure to allow that, propose it.

### How to specify leap seconds in metadata ([#17](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/17))

Need everyone to weigh in on this. Wayne will send out a group email listing issues to look at before next meeting.

## Issues to close

- Modifications to January 2025 minutes: #46
- 48: shift docs to Google Docs

## Issues to open

- ### Modifications to March 2025 minutes

## Other topics

None suggested

## Date/hour for next meeting

Early-mid May.

- [ ] Send out Doodle quickly [Wayne]
- [ ] Send out calendar notification once date chosen [Kasey]

## ToDos

- Wayne
    - [ ] Add issue to miniSEED3 github about OBS time correction information
    - [X] Add SDS email chain to Issue 44
    - [X] Send SDS email chain to Susanne
    - [ ] Send an email to group specifying what issues to look at!
    - [ ] Make Google Docs version of standards and software documents, move MarkDown versions to archive, put PDF version in their place.
- Susanne
    - [ ] Talk to Andres about SDS naming solutions [#44] for separating time-corrected and uncorrected data files
- ALL
    - [ ] Look at and comment on Thorny Issues (#10, #32)
    - [ ] Propose alternative clock correction nomenclature without nulls (#42)
    - [ ] Look at leapseconds specification (#17), approve existing or suggest other
