# 2025-01-24 FDSN OBS Standards meeting

## Present: 
WCrawford, JSimon, JCollins, SHemmlebb, TIsse, KAderhold

## AGU poster
[Here](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/blob/main/Crawford_FDSN_AG_standards_v5.pdf). Presented at AGU, thanks to everyone for their contribution!

##  ToDos from last meeting

- Kasey
    - [ ] Check on land station standards for start and end_dates (issue #25)
- Maria
    - [ ] Set up github projects as a way of grouping issues and assigning people
- ALL
    - [ ] Look at and comment on Thorny Issues (#10, #32)
    - [ ] Propose better structure (and/of wording) for ``standards.md``?

## Document/Issue changes since last meeting


## Issues for this meeting

Some "new" issues are cleaned up / reorganized versions of old ones

### Minutes of January 2025 meeting ([#46](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/46))

### Shift standards and software documents to Google Docs (or similar)? ([#48](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/48))

### Verify leveling system documentation ([#45](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/45))

### Specifying time correction in miniSEED ([#43](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/43))
New issue split off from old issue 36

### Specifying time correction in SDS ([#44](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/44))
New issue split off from old issue 36

### Add how to specify when there is no clock sync information ([#42](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/42))

### How to specify leap seconds in metadata ([#17](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/17))

## Issues to close

- ### Modifications to January 2025 minutes [#46]

## Issues to open

- ### Modifications to March 2025 minutes

## Other topics


## Date/hour for next meeting

Early-mid May.

- [ ] Send out Doodle quickly [Wayne]
- [ ] Send out calendar notification once date chosen [Kasey]

## ToDos

- Wayne
- Kasey
- Maria
    - [ ] Set up github projects as a way of grouping issues and assigning people
- ALL
    - [ ] Look at and comment on Thorny Issues (#10, #32)
    - [ ] Propose better structure (and/of wording) for ``standards.md``?
