# 2025-03-07 FDSN OBS Standards meeting

## Present: 
WCrawford, JSimon, JCollins, CCorela, TIsse, KAderhold, YAi, MTsekmistrenko, JCarter

##  ToDos from last meeting

- Wayne
    - [X] Add issue to miniSEED3 github about OBS time correction information
    - [X] Add SDS email chain to Issue 44
    - [X] Send SDS email chain to Susanne
    - [X] Send an email to group specifying what issues to look at!
    - [X] Make Google Docs version of standards and software documents, move MarkDown versions to archive, put PDF version in their place.
- Susanne
    - [X] Talk to Andres about SDS naming solutions [#44] for separating time-corrected and uncorrected data files
- ALL
    - [ ] Look at and comment on Thorny Issues (#10, #32)
    - [ ] Propose alternative clock correction nomenclature without nulls (#42)
    - [ ] Look at leapseconds specification (#17), approve existing or suggest other

## Document/Issue changes since last meeting

### standards.docx

- Modified from .md to .docx, put on Google Docs
- Changed "OBS" to "Marine seismology" throughout document
- Added simplified Clock Drift nomenclature when no drift measured (based on Issue 42)
- Added Pressure Sensor `InputUnits` description to end of document

### software.docx

- Modified from .md to .docx, put on Google Docs
- Added links to articles

## New Issues

### Modifications to March 2025 minutes ([#49](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/49))

**If no corrections by tomorrow, approve and close**

### Rename "OBS" to "Marine seismology" in documents ([#50](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/50))
Done.   No objections.  **Close issue**

### Add pressure units specification to standards document ([#51](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/51))
Done. No objections.  **Close issue**

**ToDo**: Open obspy issue to not write <Description>None</Description> when `Description is None`

## Unclosed Issues

The answers  to #s 42, 17 and 32 simplify if **obsinfo** can accept more complicated responses than those proposed for StationXML

### Verify leveling system documentation ([#45](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/45))

Kept open to allow discussion of automatic compensation systems (like Guralp Aquarius,
Sercel accelerometer...)

Existing new fields are (none required):

- `threshold.deg`: (float) # deviation from vertical (degrees) which will trigger releveling
- `accuracy.deg`:  (float) # maximum deviation from vertical accepted after relevel
- `max_relevel_interval.h` (float) # longest interval between level checks during the deployment
- `n_relevels`: (int) # number of relevels performed during the deployment
- `relevels`: (list)

**Added:**
- `description`: (str) # description of the leveling system

Added text in the **Nomenclature** section describing the <name>.<unit> nomenclature.

**Can be closed**

### Specifying time correction in miniSEED3 ([#43](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/43))

Issue added to miniSEED3 github ([#32 Specifying time base corrections](https://github.com/FDSN/miniSEED3/issues/32))

Discussion opened no resolution.  Seems that should do same thing in miniSEED3 as in miniSEED2.

Comments from AG:
- WCrawford: also could specify real sampling rate, because is now float*8, but could be confusing for users

**Close issue, and Open issue to discuss "real sampling rate".  WCrawford will look for any possible relevant fields in the
extra headers**

### Specifying time correction in SDS ([#44](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/44))

Wayne added email chain to Issue, sent to Susanne, who talked to Andres and put his answer in the
Issue.  Should Wayne contact WG2 about asking FDSNWS to support other codes for waveform data?

**WCrawford will write to WG2, with Andres on copy, have to find an unused letter ("X"? Ask them for suggestions).  For now, recommendation
is to put both in same file**

**Write this in Issue and Close**

### Add how to specify when there is no clock sync information ([#42](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/42))

JCarter and JSimon don't like the null specifier, prefer to put nothing.
WCrawford had some trouble processing this, wanting to put all of the information possible in the 
StationXML file, but maybe that level of information is not appropriate in a StationXML file, which
should simply indicate that there is no good clock correction if any of the sync values are absent.

**Modified the documentation, leave issue open, either to put comments on Google Doc or in issue**

### How to specify leap seconds in metadata ([#17](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/17))

People found `applied_corrections` nomenclature confusing:

```yaml
    applied_corrections:
        not_clock_corrected_miniseed: False  # does not-clock-corrected miniseed have leapsecond corrected? (False)
        syncs_instrument: True               # Are the instrument syncs corrected for the leapsecond(s)?
```

We could simplify it using:

```yaml
    corrected_in:
        not_clock_corrected_data: False  # does not-clock-corrected miniseed have leapsecond corrected? (False)
        syncs_instrument: True               # Are the instrument syncs corrected for the leapsecond(s)?
```

or:
```yaml
    corrected_in: ['syncs_instrument']   # 'syncs_instrument' and/or 'non_clock_corrected data'
```

Another option would be to specify that the leapseconds should

- not be corrected in the not_clock_uncorrected data
- be corrected in syncs_instrument.

WCrawford resisted the latter because it could lead to miscalculations
by operators, but if **obsinfo** kept the optional booleans and converted the values itself if
syncs_instrument=False, maybe that would be good enough.

In this case, the `syncs_instrument` boolean could be dropped and the `not_clock_corrected_miniseed` boolean
could turn into an infrequently used long explicative boolean (in case someday dataloggers could integrate
leapseconds natively):

```yaml
    leapsecond_is_integrated_into_not_clock_corrected_miniseed: True
```

It would be nice if we could avoid the boolean, as we only want to specify if it is True, but
I don't see a clean YAML way to do this.

**Second option is preferred by most of AG.  Rewrite in document, close issue and open new one with the current proposition**

## Thorny Issues

### How to handle leap-seconds with respect to drift corrections ([#32](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/32))

WCrawford suggestions:
- Question 1: Change to "Note corrected times" as suggested above
- Question 2: Keep present answer, becomes easy to implement with new question 1 answer.
- Question 3: Keep present answer (Does AG agree?)

Group suggests splitting into two records around leap second, but this split would have to take into acccount the drift.

**Accept 1 and 2, close Issue and open new one aroune question 3**

## Specification of how to convert geophone "N" and "E" channels to "1" and "2" ([#10](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/10))

Depends on whether they are inverted in the same way as the Z channel is.  If they are, I believe that the answer proposed is the correct one.
**JCollins: Add information on geophone wiring to document**.  Currently a subsection of "Introduction", should it become a section (or Appendix) at the end?

**Keep open and state that JCollins and CCorela will write first draft explanation**

## Issues to close

In the text

## Issues to open

In the text, plus "Modifications to May 2025 minutes"

## Other topics

**WCrawford: Fix dead footnote #2 links in 2.1.1.4**
**WCrawford: Send EGU poster to TIsse ASAP (meeting 29 May)**

JSimon funding is ending: may not go to Lisbon, if so Yinshuang Ai will take over as chair.

## Date/hour for next meeting

Early-mid July.

- [ ] Send out Doodle quickly [Wayne]
- [ ] Send out calendar notification once date chosen [Kasey]

## ToDos

- WCrawford:
    - [ ] Close issue #49 (March meeting minutes) if no objections by Sat May 10
    - [ ] Close issues #50, #51, #45
    - [ ] Open obspy issue to not write <Description>None</Description> when `Description is None`
    - [ ] Close issue #43.  Open new, linked one discussing whether to specify real sampling rate in miniSEED3
      (including listing of any other relevant miniSEED3 Extra Headers)
    - [ ] Issue #44:
        - [ ] Write to WG2, with Andres on copy, to see if FDSNWS and slarchive can be modified to allow an unused
          'TYPE' letter ("X"? Ask them for suggestions) for Not Clock Corrected data.
        - [ ] In standards document, recommend putting corrected and not corrected in the same file.
        - [ ] Write this inforation in the issue, then close it.
    - [ ] Issue #17:
        - [ ] Rewrite document section on leap seconds:
            - [ ] Propose that clock sync times should be leap-second corrected
            - [ ] Propose that "not clock corrected" data should not be leap-second corrected.  If unavoidable, add
                  `leapsecond_is_integrated_into_not_clock_corrected_miniseed` field.
        - [ ] Close Issue with this information added
        - [ ] Open new, linked issue with the current proposition
    - [ ] Issue #32
          - [ ] Add question 1 and 2 recommendations to document
          - [ ] Close Issue
          - [ ] Open new, linked issue with only question 3
    - [ ] Issue #10: keep open and state that JCollins and C Corela will add proposed text
    - [ ] Add Issue for "Modifications to May meeting minutes"
    - [ ] Fix dead footnote #2 links in standards.docx, section 2.1.1.4
    - [X] Send EGU poster to TIsse ASAP (meeting 29 May)
- JCollins
    - [ ] Write draft text describing geophone wiring and validation to make sure channels 1 and 2 correspond to seismometer standards
- CCorela
    - [ ] Look at and comment on or add to JCollins text

