# 2025-01-24 FDSN OBS Standards meeting

## Present: 
WCrawford, JSimon, JCollins, SHemmleb, TIsse, KAderhold

## AGU poster
[Here](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/blob/main/Crawford_FDSN_AG_standards_v5.pdf). Presented at AGU, thanks to everyone for their contribution!

## Unresolved ToDos from last meeting
- Susanne
    - Submit an obspy issue about reading namespaced elements and not losing them on output.  **Still discusing technical details of creating namespaces with colleagues, not a simple issue and not limited to obspy.  Susanne thinks integrating into StationXML is the preferred path.**

## Document/Issue changes since last meeting

- New "Thorny" issue label, for issues that have no clear answer, need everyone's input
- Added Meetings/tags.md document, showing how to create and compare tags
- README.md updated (see comparison)
- other/drift_correct/ input files changed to add timing base information and invert column order
- other/drift_correct/ output files changed for clearer headers and easier machine readability
- clock corrections plot updated with more informative axis labels
- other/leap_second_msmod_addition.md: changed "julian day" to "day of year"
- "preambule.md" moved from top level to other/, for top-level clarity.
- standards.md document restructured according to issue [#39](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/39).
  Old version is at https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/blob/main/other/_old/standards.md

## Issues for this meeting

### Minutes of November 2024 meeting ([#41](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/41))
Accept with updates to "ToDos"

### Restructure standards.md ([#39](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/39))
- Had planned to have different name until approbation at this meeting, but changed before AGU for clarity for new visitors.
- Old version is at https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/blob/main/other/_old/standards.md
- No change in content
- Members are invited to comment on new structure

### Ways to indicate time-corrected versus uncorrected in datafiles ([#36](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/36))

Also issue [#11](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/11), which is not a sub-issue of #36

Poll results = [Y/N/Abstain] unless unanamous yes = [X]

- miniSEED2 header fields decided, remaining is for miniSEED3 and SeisComp data structure
    - miniSEED3:
      - [X] Ask FDSN for an "Uncorrected" boolean in the FDSN Time header? (default should correspond to corrected)
      - [X] Ask FDSN for an "effective sampling rate" double in the FDSN Time header?
      - [1/1/4] Ask FDSN for new source code "U_x_", where "_x_" is the instrument code and U specifies Time-Uncorrected?  **seems ugly, would have to define for every possible instrument code and there already exists a "U" instrument code, which could confuse**
    - Seiscomp Data Structure
      - [4/0/2] Ask GEMPA to create new "time-uncorrected waveform data" TYPE character (U)?

#### ToDo:

- **Look at issue, see if it can be cleaned or split**
- **Closed issue**
- **Created new issues "Specifying time correction in SDS" and "Specifying time correction in miniSEED3"**

### OBS elements missing in StationXML ([#31](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/31))

Also issue [#1: Add OBS-specific parameters using external namespace?](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/1),
which is now a sub-issue

- [X] Add general rule to ``standards.md``?
      1) Define needed elements
      2) Put into StationXML as JSON-formatted comments
      3) Consult with FDSN WGII for StationXML addition

*if/when namespace read->write resolved, replace 2) with "Put into OBS namespace element"?*

## ToDo
- Add general rule to ``standards.md``
- Close issue
- **Done**

### Information about leveling systems in StationXML file [#28](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/28)

- Sent proposed element and structure to WG2 chairs
- P Crotwell responded, recommending that Leveler be an instance of Equipment, possibly with added fields
- [TABLE] Request FDSN to create ``Leveler`` element at Channel level (affects response), using EquipmentType with
      additional ``<Threshold>`` and ``<Accuracy>`` sub-elements and ``units`` attribute?
      **need to better specify all required elements***
- Until then, use:
      - [X] Additional standard Channel-> Equipment field (4/5 votes), or
      - [ ] marine-specific element (Comment for now, namespace in future?) within Channel (1/5 votes)

JCollins thinks that three fields are inadequate to know about the level states.
add "max_relevel_interval" "n_relevels" and "relevel_dates_before_after"

#### ToDo

- **Put into standards.md document**
- **Done**

### How to specify ``start_date`` and ``end_date`` (and cut data)
- Issue was updated, **implement in standards.md, then close issue**
- **Done**
- 
### Contact companies about implementing msmod drift corrections ([#24](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/24))
 Closed

### Station names for repeated deployments ([#18](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/18))

#### ToDo

- **Upgrade ``standards.md``** with:
    - [X] RECOMMENDATION: "significant travel-time residual discrepancy" criteria? (2 abstains)
    - [X] RECOMMENDATION: specified name format (last n characters incrementing) 
- **Done**

### How to specify leap seconds in metadata ([#17](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/17))

Updated with unrest about the term ``not_clock_corrected_miniseed``

Leave open

### items needing responses from group members:
- #### How to handle leap seconds [#32]
- #### Specify how to convert geophone "N" and "E" channels to "1" and "2" [#10](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/10)

## Issues to close

- ### Modifications to November 2024 minutes [#30]
  No modifications proposed.  Closed

## Issues to open

- ### Modifications to January 2025 minutes

## Other topics


## Date/hour for next meeting

Early-mid March.

- [X] Send out Doodle quickly [Wayne]
- [X] Send out calendar notification once date chosen [Kasey]

## ToDos

- Wayne
    - [X] Update status of ToDos in last meeting's minutes
    - [X] Rename "preambule.md" to "preamble.md"
    - [X] Update Issues and ``standards.md`` document as stipulated in these meeting minutes
    - [X] Ask FDSN WGII for two new fields in FDSN Time Header: Uncorrected (boolean) and effective_sampling_rate (double)
- Kasey
    - [ ] Check on land station standards for start and end_dates (issue #25)
- Maria
    - [ ] Set up github projects as a way of grouping issues and assigning people
- ALL
    - [ ] Look at and comment on Thorny Issues (#10, #32)
    - [ ] Propose better structure (and/of wording) for ``standards.md``?
