# 2025-07-09 FDSN OBS Standards meeting

## Present: 
WCrawford, JSimon, JCollins, CCorela, TIsse, KAderhold, YAi, MTsekmistrenko, JCarter

##  ToDos from last meeting

All done, except text on Geophones (?)

## Document/Issue changes since last meeting

### standards.docx

- [ ] Update PDF version on the website.

### software.docx

- Maria added a question about creating metadata directly from dataloggers (e.g. KUM 6D6/7 
- Added OCloC clock drift calulation software (not tested by Wayne)
- [ ] Update PDF version on the website.

## Unclosed older Issues

### Specification of how to convert geophone "N" and "E" channels to "1" and "2" ([#10](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/10))

**JCollins: Add information on geophone wiring to document**.  Currently a subsection of "Introduction", should it become a section (or Appendix) at the end?

### Add how to specify when there is no clock sync information ([#42](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/42))

JCarter and JSimon don't like the null specifier, prefer to put nothing.
WCrawford had some trouble processing this, wanting to put all of the information possible in the 
StationXML file, but maybe that level of information is not appropriate in a StationXML file, which
should simply indicate that there is no good clock correction if any of the sync values are absent.

**Modified the documentation, leave issue open, either to put comments on Google Doc or in issue**

## New Issues

### Modifications to May 2025 minutes ([#53](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/53))

**If no corrections by tomorrow, approve and close**

### How to correct drift in data with leap seconds ([#55](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/55))
There are two proposed methods: one correcting drift first, one correcting the leapsecond first.

The first is  simpler, but calculating the clock correction using ambient noise requires temporary leap-second corrected data,
and times after the leap second will be off by 1-2* the clock drift rate (generally much less than 1 us, but not guaranteed).

The second requires special checks for gaps/overlaps in the data around the leapsecond.

Takehi proposed a third method, using separate clock drifts calculated before and after the leap second.  Does this avoid an apparent gap at the leap
second?  Do we care?

### Leap second specification in metadata ([#57](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/56))
Proposition in previous meeting to resolve issue 17.  Written in standards document (section 2.1.1.3.4)

Approve?

### obspy and external namespaces in StationXML ([#57](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/57))
obspy no longer throws away elements using external namespace, but implementation is imperfect.
- Wayne created [issue](https://github.com/obspy/obspy/issues/3574) in obspy to discuss this, no responses yet
- Recommend not mentioning this in standards document
- Create "future issues" document for this kind of thing?

### Relative orientation of 1,2 and 3 components ([#58](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/58))
All AS responses recommended using the same relative geometre as N,E,Z.  Wayne asks if a new "4" subsource code
can't be created for opposite polarity Z ("DOWN") and wrote a proposed text in the "standards" document, which he also sent
to WG2 leadership to see if they are interested in making this a "global" recommendation (in which case we would
only have to refer to it).

### Propose unified (or at least validated) software as goal for next cycle (IUGG 2027?) ([#59](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/59))
JSimon recommends a formal proposal (what is needed?) preceded by a request for current users to log bugs, quirks or expert know-how in a less formal
way (shared wiki?)

### Status of msmod modification for clock drift correction ([#60](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/60))
Purcahse order made, work was supposed to be done by the end of June.  Ilya Dricker is in charge of changes.  Wayne contacted him last on 8 July,
Ilya promised to get the work done "quickly".  Wayne requested that a pre-release version be out by August 23 at latest, so that it can be integrated
into an IAPEI Early Career Scientist training course on OBSs that precedes the IASPEI conference and so that it can be integrated in to the standards
software documents that will be presented at the FDSN WP5 meeting at IASPEI

### Status of msmod modification for clock drift correction ([#61](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/61))
Wayne talked to Chad Trabant in December 2024, repinged on him yesterday on the off chance that he could integrate this
change before IASPEI (would simplify standards document, section 2.1.3.2.1 for example)


## Issues to close

In the text

## Issues to open

In the text, plus "Modifications to May 2025 minutes"

## Other topics

JSimon funding is ending: may not go to Lisbon, if so Yinshuang Ai will take over as chair.

## ToDos

- WCrawford:
    - [ ] xxxx
- XXXXXX
    - [ ] xxxx
- YYYYYY
    - [ ] xxxx


