# 2025-07-09 FDSN OBS Standards meeting

## Present: 
WCrawford, JSimon, JCollins, CCorela, TIsse, KAderhold, YAi, MTsekmistrenko, SHemmleb, 

##  ToDos from last meeting

All done, except text on Geophones (?)

## Document/Issue changes since last meeting

### standards.docx

- [ ] Update PDF version on the website.

### software.docx

- Maria added a question about creating metadata directly from dataloggers (e.g. KUM 6D6/7 )
    - Add a table of companies that output StationXML metadata, and information on which standards/recommendations they do not yet respect
- Added OCloC clock drift calulation software (not tested by Wayne)
- [ ] Update PDF version on the website.

## Unclosed older Issues

### Specification of how to convert geophone "N" and "E" channels to "1" and "2" ([#10](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/10))

**JCollins: Add information on geophone wiring to document**.  Currently a subsection of "Introduction", should it become a section (or Appendix) at the end?

### Add how to specify when there is no clock sync information ([#42](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/42))

Documentation modified (in red), will close issue if no-one objects in the next month

## New Issues

### Modifications to May 2025 minutes ([#53](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/53))

**If no corrections by tomorrow, approve and close**

### How to correct drift in data with leap seconds ([#55](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/55))
There are two proposed methods: one correcting drift first, one correcting the leapsecond first.

The first is  simpler, but calculating the clock correction using ambient noise requires temporary leap-second corrected data,
and times after the leap second will be off by 1-2* the clock drift rate (generally much less than 1 us, but not guaranteed).

The second requires special checks for gaps/overlaps in the data around the leapsecond.

Takehi proposed a third method, using separate clock drifts calculated before and after the leap second.  Does this avoid an apparent gap at the leap
second?  Do we care?

1. [X] Put "drift first" recommendation in standards document
2. [ ] If Takehi can present an algorithm for his method that will work on miniSEED files, we can compare to the clock drift recommendation and vote on which one to put in the final standards document.

**Add section on what dataloggers handle leapseconds already, how they do it, and whether this information is output in their metatdata using our recommendations.**  (needs input from companies and users, will put in "Open Issues" document).

** Close Issue **

### Leap second specification in metadata ([#56](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/56))
Proposition in previous meeting to resolve issue 17.  Written in standards document (section 2.1.1.3.4)

**Close the issue**

### obspy and external namespaces in StationXML ([#57](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/57))
obspy no longer throws away elements using external namespace, but implementation is imperfect.
- Wayne created [issue](https://github.com/obspy/obspy/issues/3574) in obspy to discuss this, no responses yet
- Recommend not mentioning this in standards document
- [X] **Create "future issues" document for this kind of thing**
- [X] **Close issue**

### Relative orientation of 1,2 and 3 components ([#58](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/58))
All AS responses recommended using the same relative geometry as N,E,Z.  Wayne asks if a new "4" subsource code
can't be created for opposite polarity Z ("DOWN") and wrote a proposed text in the "standards" document,
which he also sent to WG2 leadership to see if they are interested in making this a "global" recommendation (in which case we would only have to refer to it).

WG2 leadership is NOT in favor of this.  We will recommend the 1-2 relative geometry if 1 and 2 are horizontal, but
provide no default geometry for 1-2-3 (require reading the Dip and Azimuth values), and specify that the Dip,Azimuth values in the metadata should
always be consulted for channels 1,2,3.
Wayne added a sentence to the standards document on specifying the relative geometry if the absolute geometry is unknown

**Close issue**

### Propose unified (or at least validated) software as goal for next cycle (IUGG 2027?) ([#59](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/59))
JSimon recommends a formal proposal (what is needed?) preceded by a request for current users to log bugs, quirks or expert know-how in a less formal
way (shared wiki?)

**Create FDSN "Marine Seismology Software" github site with lists of software and mechanism for people to submit their experiences and recommendations**
- [ ] Activate wiki so that people can comment there (Joel is writing comment on issue 59)
    - Advertise through multiple outlets: MSROC commitee meeting, obsictech website, everybody's OBS group puts on a link, Earthquake.

Information added to top of "Open Issues" document.

**Close Issue after proposing at FDSN 2025 meeting**

### Status of msmod modification for clock drift correction ([#60](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/60))
Purchase order made, work was supposed to be done by the end of June.  Ilya Dricker (ISTI) is in charge of changes.  Wayne contacted him last on 8 July.
Ilya promised to get the work done "quickly".  Wayne requested that a pre-release version be out by August 23 at latest,
so that it can be integrated into an IAPEI Early Career Scientist training course on OBSs that precedes the IASPEI 
conference and so that it can be integrated in to the standards
software documents that will be presented at the FDSN WP5 meeting at IASPEI.

**Leave open**

### Status of msmod modification for leap second correction ([#61](https://github.com/FDSN/OBS-standards/issues/61))
Wayne talked to Chad Trabant in December 2024, repinged on him yesterday on the off chance that he could integrate this
change before IASPEI (would simplify standards document, section 2.1.3.2.1 for example)

**Leave open**

## Issues to open

Only "Modifications to July 2025 minutes"

## Other topics

JSimon funding is ending: may not go to Lisbon, if so Yinshuang Ai will take over as chair.

## ToDos

- WCrawford:
    - [ ] Update PDF versions of standards and software documents
    - [X] Create "Open Issues" document containing issues raised but not resolved by this AS
          - external namespaces
          - alternative algorithms for leap second/drift correction
          - Dataloggers that provide leapsecond-corrected data, and whether this corresponds to our recommendations.
    - [ ] Formally propose "Unified Marine Seismology Software" Action at 2025 FDSN meeting.  If approved:
        - [ ] Create FDSN "Marine Seismology Software" github with activated Wiki, allowing users to write to wiki or raise issues
            - [ ] Create "Dataloggers" document indicating which dataloggers already do some of the work outlined
                  in the standards/software documents (leapseconds, drift correction...) and stating whether their
                  solution conforms to our recommendations.
        - [ ] Close issue 59 once this is done.
    - [X] Close issues 55, 56, 57, 58
    - [X] Close issue 42 (Clock sync information) **on 23 August** if no objection/improvement
    - [X] Close issue 53 (Modifications to May 2025 minutes) **on 11 July** if no objections
    - [X] Update standards document
        - [X] Put only "clock drift first" recommendation
        - [X] Remove any references to StationXML external namespaces
        - [X] Remove table (replaced by bulleted list) from section 2.1.1.4.
    - [ ] Add issue "Modifications to July 2025 minutes"
- TIsse:
    - [ ] Propose alternative algorithm for drift + leapsecond correcting miniSEED files (issue 55)
- JCollins
    - [X] Finish writing up vertical channel polarity guide (standards document, section 1.4)
- CCorela
    - [ ] Look at section 1.4 after JCollins has finished, add any additional information if necessary
