# 2026-04-22 meeting minutes

## Participants:
W Crawford, J Collins, J Simon, J Carter, S Hemmleb, Y Ai

## Order of business

- Validation of July 2025 minutes
- The standards document
     - Explanation of intended usage (Wayne)
     - Discussions/votes on individual sections, including:
         - Not asking FDSN to retain creation_date and termination_date (Issue 65)
         - Addition standards request for pointer (Issue 66)
        - Format of non-standard information in StationXML files [Issue 64]
        - Smaller details [Issues 63 and 42]
    - Vote on the standards document
    - Decision on whether the standards document should have a DOI.
- Status of msmod additions [Issues 60 and 61]
- Vote on changing the repository name from "OBS-standards to "marine-seismology-standards" (or similar) [Issue 67]
- Discussion of possible article on standards
- Discussion of new action group on unified/validated software [Issue 59]

## Note on votes

Voted issues are preceded by "[yes/total]", for example:

> [4/21] Adjourn for dinner

Means 4 of 21 participations voted to adjourn for dinner

## Validation of July 2025 minutes

[6/6] Approve if no complaints by tomorrow.

## The standards document

### Explanation of intended usage (Wayne)

Primary use is as a basis for modifications/additions to FDSN standards and documentation

Secondary use is as a compilation of marine-specific standards, for marine seismologists and those using marine data
- As the basis for an article (like [Lai et al, 2024](https://doi.org/10.1785/0220230325))?
- As a DOI'd online document? (e.g. [Crystal-Ornelas et al. (2021)](https://doi.org/10.1029/2021ea001797))

### Discussions/votes on individual sections

#### Not asking FDSN to retain creation_date and termination_date (Issue 65)

[6/6] do **not** ask FDSN to retain these elements

####  Addition standards request for pointer (Issue 66)

JSimon likes this for Mermaid, but doesn't think we can resolve this now.
JCollins likes the idea, though maybe not work on it now.

[6/6] Leave issue open on site, do not address in current standards document

####  Format of non-standard information in StationXML files [Issue 64]

Will be discussed when we look at the document

####  Smaller details [Issues 63 and 42]

Issue 42: changed wording slghtly, group agrees

Issue 63: current document wording is ok

### Vote on the standards document

> - JSimon: Should better specify dates than simply "ISO8601", and specify if there are limits on the number of decimal points.
> - ChatGPT: Remove spaces in XML <>

[6/6] Approve, with modification to datetime specification (will be sent to members, no response within 1 week = approval)

### Decision on whether the standards document should have a DOI.

JSimon: not right away, should be sure we have the final version

[6/6] No DOI, unless something goes wrong with the article

## Status of msmod additions [Issues 60 and 61]

**Clock correction part** (written by ISTI) has been evaulated and approved for the miniSEED 2 only branch (1.x?).  Wayne has asked Chad Trabant to release it.  Afterwards need to implement miniSEED3 version.

**Leap second correction part** will be written by Chad Trabant, should be easy but he needs to have the time.

## Vote on changing the repository name from "OBS-standards to "marine-seismology-standards" (or similar) [Issue 67]

[6/6] Change to "marine-seismology-standards"

## Discussion of possible article on standards

[6/6] Do we write an article?

Write immediately, but do not submit until responses from FDSN about recommendations.  Use this mailing list for communication.

## Discussion of new action group on unified/validated software [Issue 59]

> - **JSimon**: No hyperlinks in software document
> - **JCollins**: don't want to be forced to use one specific code
> - **JSimon**: Prefer a repository of repositories.
> - **JCarter**: This would be a living document.
> - **JSimon**: Should not give approval, because things could change.

* Links in current documentdon't work.
* Group prefers same type of document, with some method for people to add/update software (Issues?)
* Contact software owners for their approval of Comment/Description
* Request new FDSN github repository
* Advertise in upcoming paper.
* Maintainer: Wayne (for now)
* Information diffused to new marine-seismology-software mailing list (current members of obs-standards at beginning, may request to be removed)
* Send email to entire working group 5 (Joel)

# To Do

## Wayne

- Standards document
    - [ ] Update standards document and send to mailing list
         - [ ] clarify datetime specification
         - [ ] remove extra spaces in XML fields
         - [ ] final AI evaluation?
    - [ ] Once approved, send recommendations to FDSN WG 2
- Standards article
    - [ ] Write  article, but do not submit until responses from FDSN about recommendations.
- Software repository of repositories
    - [ ] Request new FDSN
    - [ ] Ask each software provider for approval/modification of description and webpage
- [ ] Ask Chad Trabant if `--ls` name can be changed to `--updateleapseconds`
- Other
    - [ ] Change repository name to "marine-seismology-standards"
- Issues
    - [ ] Close all but #66

## Joel

- [ ] Send email to WG5 about new marine seismology software repository of repositories
